How a Boy Becomes a Knight (working title)
Andy Maxwell
December 26th, 2016
First Person Viewpoint

Overview: Boy sees knights, sets off on course to become a knight.


6-7
[art notes: boy, 7 or so, in front of a manor house looking at knights on a hilltop]

My name is John.  My father is a lord. He owns a large farm and is on the King’s court. But when I grow up, I don’t want to be a lord.  I want to be a knight.

8-9

Not every boy can become a knight.  Your father has to be a knight or a lord--like mine--or have another title. My first step is to become a page. I’m 7, so that’s the age to start.

10-11

I’ll live in the knight’s castle and he and his men teach me the basics.  I’ll learn to ride a horse hands free, so I can hold a lance and shield when I’m older.  I’ll play fight with other pages using wooden swords and shields.  Sometimes we’ll even fight piggy back to learn balance.  We won’t use real weapons, of course. 

12-13

We’ll also learn manners, and art, maybe even music.  I want to play the lute.   Priests will teach us how to read and about religion. 

14-15

We’ll also have to help out around the castle.  Pages run messages around, fetch water, and serve food. I don’t mind cleaning clothes, but I hope I don’t have to clean up after the horses.

16-17

When I’m 14, I’ll become a squire.  As a young man, my training will be harder and more dangerous.  I’ll train with knights and other pages and learn to handle real swords and lances and spears.  If the knight needs to go to battle, I’ll be expected to fight along side of him.

18-19

My real horseback training starts when I’m a squire.  I’ll practice using my lance against dummies.  I’ll hit them so hard, sometimes I’ll get knocked off my horse, but that’s the only way to learn.  I’ll also practice for jousting by trying to get my lance into tiny hoops hanging from ropes while galloping at full speed.

20-21

I’ll continue my studies, learning strategy and tactics, and how to lead men in battle.  I’ll learn the Chilvalric Code.  These are the rules knights must follow: Defend the weak, destroy evil, be honorable, and serve the king. 

22-23

To test my skills, I’ll compete with other squires in tournaments.  We’ll fight with padded swords, and joust to knock each other off our horses. I’m excited, but also a little scared. It’s dangerous being a squire. Many young men are hurt in their training.  But at the end of it, I’ll be strong and brave and ready for anything.

24-25


26-27

28-29

30-31

32