How a Boy Becomes a Knight (working title)
Andy Maxwell
December 24, 2016


outline.
Boy, 7, playing with wooden sword. Asks his grandfather how a boy can become a knight.

Grandfather explains that he needs to be of noble birth, usually.  Goes to live with a knight and becomes a page, learning manners and skills, then a squire and learns the skills of a knight. 


6-7

[art notes: Setting, castle room, medieval decoration, tapistry of knight on the wall. 7 year old boy playing with wooden sword. Grandfather watching.]

[left]
Grandfather, can I become a knight?

[right]
I’m glad you asked. 

8-9

[art notes: picture of knight’s family with baby]

First of all, you have to be born in the right family.  Your father needs to be a lord, or a wealthy man, a man on the king’s court, or a knight.   I’m a Duke, so I’ve got you covered.  Here you can see our family crest--it’s a design that shows our history and is unique to us.

10-11
[art notes: pages used to fight riding piggyback on each other to learn balance.  They would also ride wooden horses pulled by a rope] 

When a you are about 7 or 8, right about your age, you take your first steps toward knighthood by becoming a page.  You’ll go to live with a knight and he’ll teach you how to fight.  You and the other pages will fight with a wooden sword and shields. You won’t get plate armor, but you can wear chain-mail to get used to the weight and build muscles. You’ll learn how to ride a horse hands free, which you’ll need to do in battle.  Huntsmen will take you out and you’ll learn how to hunt, and maybe even train your own falcon.

12-13

Being a knight is about more than just fighting. The knight will also teach you the basics of becoming a gentleman.  As a page you will learn manners and skills like how to behave in court. You might even learn to play the lute. Priests will teach you how to read and you’ll learn about religion.  When you’re a knight, people look up to you.  Also, you might meet the king! 

14-15

The knight doesn’t spend all his time teaching you for free, though.  You will hae to help out around the castle.  Pages serve food, clean the knight’s clothes, fetch water, and run around carrying messages. When you’re older you’ll tend the horses, carve meat at banquets, even clean the Knight’s armor and sharpen weapons.

16-17

When you’re 14, you’ll be promoted to squire.  Now you’re old enough to use real swords and lances.  You’ll learn to fight for real.  In fact, you’ll be expected to join your knight in battle if he needs you.  You’ll practice fighting swords and other weapons. 


18-19

Your real training will be on horseback. You will improve your skills with the lance by practicing on a dummy, or aiming for small loops. 

20-21

When you’re older you may even fight and joust against other squires at tournaments. Everyone uses dull and padded swords and lances, of course. This training is hard and dangerous. Many squires get hurt, but if you make it through you will be tough, and strong, and brave.


22-23 

You’ll learn the strategies and tactics of fighting, and how to lead men into battle. And you’ll learn the Chilvalric Code.  These are the rules knights must follow: Defend the weak, destroy evil, be honorable, and serve the king. 

24-25

You’ll even learn how to siege castles.  Oh, the Code says you have to talk to them first to see if you can have a truce. 


26-27

After about 6 years of training as a squire, if you succeed, you will be sworn in as a knight.  The ceremony is long and serious.  Some must fast for days and pray.  Then a feast with knights and lords. After you are a knight, they will no longer be their lords and masters, but you will be one of them.  You will be given gifts they will need: spurs, armor, and a cloak with your family crest on it. It’s not just for decoration, but also so your men will know who you are in battle. 

28-29

Finally, the king will tap you on each shoulder with the flat of his sword, and you will become a knight.

30 - 31

[art notes: back in the castle room with the boy and grandfather, man entering room carrying a bundle in cloth]

[boy speaking] Grandfather, how do you know so much about becoming a knight?

32

[art notes: Father, a knight, handing bundle to son which is a cloak with a wooden sword and shield with the family crest. Grandfather has hand on father’s shoulder.  Different view of room showing tapestry of the grandfather as a knight. Suits of armor. Swords]

[grandfather] It’s what our family has always done, and you will too.

----------------------

Addl Info: other ways to become knights, like battlefield knighthood, including women

----------------------

Other approaches:

Narrarator just talking over images describing the path to become a knight, instead of 2nd person description.  Several pages include call-outs of facts like “commoners and women could be knighted in battle by the king if the showed great bravery”, or “a family’s crest, or coat of arms, was practical.  It let fighters in battle know who was their knight.  They couldn’t recognize them under all their armor.” or “The battle of Hastings in 1066 was the beginning of knights as we know it. William the Conqueror’s men used stirrups which let them stand up on horseback and use a lance.”

Could be father instead, make clear he’s talking about how he became a knight, end being “and you will too”, handing him a wooden sword.